>> Scott Moss: So again the point is I
already got this I don't want to have to
get it again.
I already got this,
I don't want to have to get it again.
So that's what we are going to look at.
So first things first is
what is a DataLoader?
How do we make one and how do we use it?
So it's actually a library
called DataLoader..
If you look at loaders.js, you'll see
that I already have some stuff here.
I have this createProjectLoader, so all
that stuff you have to do on the exercise.
But let's just walk through what
this DataLoader.r is and try to
understand the dynamics of it, and why
the way it's written, and how to apply it.
So the DataLoader,
basically the way it works is given,
cuz it does batching,
that's the whole purpose.
That it wants to batch
the similar operations on
any given level in GraphQL to resolve
at a later time and then cache it.
So what that means is for
this project loader,
its purpose is to resolve
an array of project IDs and
then pass them back in the same order with
the same number that they were given.
So what that means is if
I make multiple calls to
the database to fetch
projects on the same query.
This DataLoader is going
to batch them all.
Wait until the end of the request,
then it's going to pass all those IDs,
so this going to be
an array of object IDs.
Then it's our job to write
a database query given these
project ideas over turn all
the matching projects with that ID.
And then DataLoader is expecting
as a return type in array
of promises that will resolve to
the objects that represent those IDs.
So here basically what I'm doing
is I'm gonna create the database,
I want to find all projects
that have any of these IDs,
then I'm gonna group them by their ID.
That's gonna allow me to
map over the given IDs and
replace them with the actual projects
that they represented from the database.
So this keeps the order of the IDs I've
got, because order's important.
DataLoader looks at the order of
the ID that you gave it to know
where to resolve it to,
so order's important.
And then for
as many IDs that I got in this array,
there had better be as many
results in this array as well.
They have to match, even if it's null.
There has to be something there.
Otherwise I'm gonna freak out.
Those are the only requirements.
This sounds very complicated
as I'm explaining it.
As I'm writing it, you're gonna
see it's not actually that bad.
It's just like a caching thing.
So again, DataLoader.
batches and then it caches.
Batches and caches.
Kind of rhymes.
This may be my debut album,
batches and caches.
All right,
any questions on the DataLoader?
>> Speaker 2: One, essence of version one,
all the IDs being unique.
I guess I'm trying to figure out why 13,
14.
>> Scott Moss: 13, 14, this right here?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: So all the IDs,
they might always be unique.
So check it out.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: I might ask for
the same projects in the same request.
So this actually might be
an array of all the same
IDs.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, right?
If the ID's 1,
this might be an array of 111111111.
>> Speaker 2: So if you uniqued that
before you passed it in, then you could
>> Scott Moss: Well,
you wouldn't want to because if you do,
if you unique it, you're going to,
you're gonna mess DataLoader.
Cuz DataLoader's like I gave
you an array of ten things.
You uniqued it and you made it one thing.
>> Speaker 2: It wants ten things back.
>> Scott Moss: It wants ten things back.
Yeah, it's gotta be the exact same thing.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> Scott Moss: Otherwise it won't know
where to pass the resolved data.
It's like I don't know what
you want me to do with this.
I gave you 10 things,
you gave me one thing back.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly,
yeah, you got to keep order,
order is important.
Otherwise it won't know where to
resolve to, so you got to keep order in
the keyBy is, so I can just look it up
by the ID and I loop over the given IDs.
I don't look over the results.
Cuz this is gonna be in any order,
the DataLoader's gonna give it back
to me in whatever order it wants.
The only thing I know that's
guaranteed the right order
is the IDs that DataLoader gave me.
So I'll loop over that and
I associate that ID with
the project from the database.
Which guarantees the order and the amount.
And if for whatever reason there wasn't.
If one of these IDs didn't actually
represent a project that was
found in the database, then it would be
our duty to replace that value with null.
Which is basically what this does.
So this, like, or
this is undefined, I think.
This goes undefined.
There at least needs
to be something there.